DIAR-2384: README UPADTES (#1)
govuk-one-login/data-radar-public: README.md

Reviewer: Could you add a note please that says people are welcome to use this code outside of government, but if doing so, the crown logo must be removed.

Author: Addressed

# GOV.UK One Login Data Radar

![Data Radar Preview](public-data-radar-preview.png)

### Contents
- [Introduction](#govuk-one-login-data-radar)
- [About the data radar](#about-this-project)
  - [What is in the Data Radar](#what-is-in-the-data-radar)
  - [How the information is represented](#how-the-information-is-represented)
  - [How the data is organised](#how-the-data-is-organised)
  - [How the data is captured and prepared](#how-the-data-is-captured-and-prepared)
  - [Data Radar Features](#data-radar-features)
- [Application Development](#application-development)
  - [Deployment](#deployment)
  - [Security](#security)
- [Maintenance and Future use](#maintenance-and-future-use)
- [Contact](#contact)

##  GOV.UK One Login Data Radar
Welcome to the **GOV.UK One Login Data Radar**. This repository provides an interactive and visual tool that helps you explore how data is used within GOV.UK One Login. The Data Radar allows you to see different types of information collected, why it is needed, and how it is managed, all in a clear and user-friendly way.

> The Data Radar is designed to enhance transparency, helping users better understand how GOV.UK One Login processes and stores data. Whether you're a developer, policymaker, researcher, journalist, or just curious about the data, this tool provides valuable insights into the data landscape.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Data Radar is intended to help people better understand what data GOV.UK One Login processes and stores. This information is already available to the public in various places, so the Data Radar puts this information in one place and visualises it.
```

For more details, visit the [GOV.UK One Login documentation](https://www.sign-in.service.gov.uk/documentation/).

## About the Data Radar

The **Public Data Radar** is an **open-source project**, originally developed by **6point6**, to provide an interactive and visual way to explore the the **GOV.UK One Login** data.

> - The **codebase** was originally built by **6point6** and has been **customised** for GOV.UK one login use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The **codebase** was originally built by **6point6** and has been **customised** for GOV.UK One Login use
```

> - The **codebase** was originally built by **6point6** and has been **customised** for GOV.UK one login use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The **codebase** was originally built by **6point6** and has been freely migrated to GOV.UK on the basis it continues to be open source, and **customised** for GOV.UK One Login data
```

- You are **free to use, modify, and adapt** this tool to explore and visualise data

> - However, **you cannot take this project and sell it**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You are free to use this project in the context of commercial engagements, but you cannot take this project and sell it directly
```

Reviewer: Say something like refer to the licence for more information and add a link.

Author: Addressed - the link to the licence file will work once the UI PR is merged

- **Filter by usage**: Refine your search by the purpose or reason we collect and use specific data entities
- **Filter by retention**: Narrow your view by how long we retain each data entity (retention period)
- *(Coming soon)* **Customise colours**: The default colour palette is randomly assigned, based on the UK government's [data visualisation guidance](https://analysisfunction.civilservice.gov.uk/policy-store/data-visualisation-colours-in-charts/), but soon you’ll be able to customise what each colour represents
- **Hover for details**: Simply hover your mouse over any data entity to see more information about it.

You can apply multiple filters at once to further refine your search, allowing you to view exactly the data entities that meet your specific criteria.

Additionally, each data entity may have more characteristics you can explore, such as tags for the systems or services that process it. If available, we'll also display the actual field names used in those systems.

## Application Development

> This application can be ran locally by installing the dependencies in `requirements.txt` and using python3 to run `app.py`. Alternatively to build and run the application within Docker locally just enter `make`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See below for notes on deploying this application on the cloud. For local development, install the dependencies in `requirements.txt` and use python3 to run `app.py`. Alternatively to build and run the application within Docker locally just enter `make`.
```

The app can be ran on a server directly by executing the python codeby running `python app.py`. Alternatively this can be run in a container easily by following the make commands.

CI/CD pipelines can simply set up to deploy containers to your environment - using whichever method you use to orchistrate container deployments.

Advised method:
1. on merge to main build docker image
2. publish docker image to your container registry
3. deploy using what tooling you have for deploying containers

### Security

As this application is build using Python's dash library it can be placed behind basic HTTP auth following instructions here: https://dash.plotly.com/authentication however this can potenially require hardcoding a single user and password which goes against best practices.

## Maintenance and Future use

As of **early 2025**, this project is **not actively maintained**. The **data landscape** within this repository reflects publicly available information at the time of release, but it may change over time. Others are welcome to **update, extend, or adapt** the project further.

> If you're interested in understanding the code, you can reach out to the following individuals on **LinkedIn**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're interested in understanding the code, please first of all contact the current GOV.UK repository owners and code owners. You may also reach out to the original code authors on **LinkedIn**:
```

For more details, visit the [GOV.UK One Login documentation](https://www.sign-in.service.gov.uk/documentation/).

## About the Conceptual Data Model

The **conceptual model** represents all data entities within **GOV.UK One Login**. It has been developed using publicly available information from official **GOV.UK** sources, ensuring transparency and clarity.

### Data Sources
The data entities within the **Data Radar** are derived from the following official sources:

| **Source**                                                | **Description**                                                                         | **Examples of Data**                                                                                                                                                          |
|-----------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | **[Privacy Notice](https://signin.account.gov.uk/privacy-notice)**         | Information on what data is collected and retained                                      |   [Passport face image](https://signin.account.gov.uk/privacy-notice#:~:text=We%20delete%20your%20still%20photo%20generated%20from%20your%20selfie%20video%2C%20driving%20licence%20images%20and%20biometric%20facial%20data%20from%20Iproov%E2%80%99s%20systems%20after%2030%20days.), which is retained for 30 days, [audit store data](https://signin.account.gov.uk/privacy-notice#:~:text=We%20also%20maintain%20a%20secure%20audit%20trail%20of%20all%20GOV.UK%20One%20Login%20audit%20events%20and%20activity%20which%20we%20retain%20for%207%20years%20for%20fraud%20monitoring%20purposes.), which is retained for 7 years, and [device IP address and computer GPS](https://signin.account.gov.uk/privacy-notice#:~:text=technical%20information%20including%20IP%20addresses%2C%20the%20type%20of%20device%20and%20web%20browser%20you%20use), which are used for security and technical purposes. |

Reviewer: In this table, it is OK to use Privacy Notice as the first item. Let's still include commentary on some of 'the basics' in that row. i.e. name, and so on. Even though it is repeated in the 'Additional Information' row. I think we need the reader to see first of all the main things we would expect to talk about if we were describing the data landscape. Starting the commentary with 'biometric scan / 30 days' jumps straight into quite a nuanced bit of detail, which is not representative of the main features of the data landscape.

Author: Addressed
